doc/cookbook/README.md, before:

# The Shogun cookbook

This is the Shogun cookbook, an easy to maintain collection of API examples.
We use [Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/) and our own [meta-examples](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/wiki/Example_Generation) to generate html pages with code snippets in all target languages.

This is achieved by the following high-level steps:

1. Use the automatically translated [API examples](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/tree/develop/examples/meta/src/) in Shogun's meta example language. As these are part of our test process, they are guaranteed to be executable and errors (e.g. due to API changes) are easily caught.

2. [Cookbook pages](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/tree/develop/doc/cookbook/source/examples/) contain text that uses snippets from the above code listings. Those are automatically extracted based on a simple markup system.

3. Automatically build a static html page with a global tab for each of Shogun's target languages. The user can toggle the shown language of the snippets without switching the page itself.

## Adding a page
To add an entry, only two files are needed (plus a test):

 * A meta language example, e.g. ```shogun/examples/meta/src/classifier/knn.sg``` (which during the build process is automatically translated to ```build/examples/python/classifier/knn.py```, ```build/examples/R/classifier/knn.R```, etc). The file should contain a number of snippet start and end markers, see for example [knn.sg](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/blob/develop/examples/meta/src/classifier/knn.sg).
 
 * A Sphinx markdown file with matching filename and directory, e.g. ```shogun/doc/sphinx/source/examples/classifier/knn.rst```. This file contains a description of the API example and references to code snippets. The point is to *not* show the full file listing but only a subset. The file should furthermore contain basic math in the form of LaTeX, important references (wikipedia, scientific paper references using BibTeX, etc), and links to the involved Shogun class documentation, github issues, etc. We use Sphinx tags to make this easy, see for example [knn.rst](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/blob/develop/doc/cookbook/source/examples/classifier/knn.rst).

 * Al added meta examples are part of Shogun's test build (execution only). Run `make test` in `build/examples/meta`. All numerical output (vector, matrix, real) is serialized to file at the end of each example.

 * All added meta examples are part of Shogun's integration testing. That is, the numerical output of the step above is compared to a reference file. Run `make test` in `build/tests/meta`. Note that you need to execute the examples first (above step). Running `make test` in `build` itself runs them in the right order.
 In the meta example, you might have to [put results in a variable](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/blob/develop/examples/meta/src/classifier/knn.sg#L28) if they are hidden within a Shogun object. Have a look at the generated listings to see how. When you added a new meta example, you can easily add a generated file to the [data](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun-data/tree/master/testsuite/meta/) repository (after executing the test of cource). For now, use the results generated by the `cpp` examples in `build/tests/meta/generated_results/cpp/`. Once added, all future results of a test file will be compared to this reference file. Note as opposed to the old integration testing system, only *numerical* outputs are compared. Please keep the example output files small (use toy example data)

## Guidelines

 * Orient yourself as close as possible on the above reference example. Include the same elements as used thereim.
 * Write proper English. Pay attention to grammar, spelling, and punctuation.
 * Keep the example *specific*. Only talk about the particular algorithm and its interface. General concepts (for example 'supervised learning') should go to overview pages.
 * Keep the example *local*. Only show code snippets that illustrate API usage, avoid showing the full listing.
 * Let the *code* speak for itself. Don't put useless statements that are clear from the code. Don't say things like "we call the `train` method", but rather "we train the model via". This way the `.rst` file is also invariant to API changes and we only need to update the `.sg` file.
 * *Think* about which interface you want to show. I.e. when illustrating `KNN`, use `apply_multiclass` rather than just `apply`. The former gives `CMulticlassLabels` while the latter only gives `CLabels`, which is a problem in non-typesafe languages where we can't cast in a simple way.
 
## Some useful tips

 * All external weblinks are automatically checked and warnings are given if corrupt, but please ensure you do not put in dead links.
 * If you want to add a BibTeX reference, add it to [references.bib](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/blob/develop/doc/cookbook/source/references.bib). Please do only use properly formated entries.
 * If you need a custom LaTeX operator, simply add it to [mathconf.js](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/blob/develop/doc/cookbook/source/static/mathconf.js)
 * It is very easy to re-structure the main page, or to put in general overview pages (i.e. a general description of the Classification interface of Shogun). Feel free to do so.
 
### Where to start
Our [Python examples](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/tree/develop/examples/undocumented/python_modular) are most complete. Translate any example into the meta language (remove it afterwards, the meta examples are part of our tests), and add the corresponding cookbook page.


### Render locally
We automatically upload the cookbook to our webserver in the [PR build on buildbot](http://buildbot.shogun-toolbox.org/builders/deb1%20-%20libshogun%20-%20PR), where you can also find a html preview. However, you should have a look at your page before you send a pull request.

This can be done as running

```
make cookbook
```

which is also part of ```make doc```. Note that the meta examples need to be enabled an sphinx needs to be installed, otherwise the ```cookbook``` target is not available. See dependencies below.

This generates a ```doc/cookbook/html``` folder in your build folder. To see the results, run

```
python -m SimpleHTTPServer
```

in that directory and then open your browser at ```localhost:8000```.


## Python requirements
The cookbook is automatically built if these dependencies are met:
 * `cmake` switch `-DBUILD_META_EXAMPLES`
 * [sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/)
 * [python-ply](http://www.dabeaz.com/ply/)
 
In addition this python module needs to be installed to enable bibtex citations.
 * [sphinxcontrib-bibtex](https://sphinxcontrib-bibtex.readthedocs.org/)

Commit message:

put in link for latest version online

doc/cookbook/README.md, after:

# The Shogun cookbook

This is the Shogun cookbook, an easy to maintain collection of API examples.
We use [Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/stable/) and our own [meta-examples](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/wiki/Example_Generation) to generate html pages with code snippets in all target languages. The latest version runs [here](http://shogun.ml/cookbook/latest/).

This is achieved by the following high-level steps:

1. Use the automatically translated [API examples](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/tree/develop/examples/meta/src/) in Shogun's meta example language. As these are part of our test process, they are guaranteed to be executable and errors (e.g. due to API changes) are easily caught.

2. [Cookbook pages](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/tree/develop/doc/cookbook/source/examples/) contain text that uses snippets from the above code listings. Those are automatically extracted based on a simple markup system.

3. Automatically build a static html page with a global tab for each of Shogun's target languages. The user can toggle the shown language of the snippets without switching the page itself.

## Adding a page
To add an entry, only two files are needed (plus a test):

 * A meta language example, e.g. ```shogun/examples/meta/src/classifier/knn.sg``` (which during the build process is automatically translated to ```build/examples/python/classifier/knn.py```, ```build/examples/R/classifier/knn.R```, etc). The file should contain a number of snippet start and end markers, see for example [knn.sg](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/blob/develop/examples/meta/src/classifier/knn.sg).
 
 * A Sphinx markdown file with matching filename and directory, e.g. ```shogun/doc/sphinx/source/examples/classifier/knn.rst```. This file contains a description of the API example and references to code snippets. The point is to *not* show the full file listing but only a subset. The file should furthermore contain basic math in the form of LaTeX, important references (wikipedia, scientific paper references using BibTeX, etc), and links to the involved Shogun class documentation, github issues, etc. We use Sphinx tags to make this easy, see for example [knn.rst](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/blob/develop/doc/cookbook/source/examples/classifier/knn.rst).

 * Al added meta examples are part of Shogun's test build (execution only). Run `make test` in `build/examples/meta`. All numerical output (vector, matrix, real) is serialized to file at the end of each example.

 * All added meta examples are part of Shogun's integration testing. That is, the numerical output of the step above is compared to a reference file. Run `make test` in `build/tests/meta`. Note that you need to execute the examples first (above step). Running `make test` in `build` itself runs them in the right order.
 In the meta example, you might have to [put results in a variable](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/blob/develop/examples/meta/src/classifier/knn.sg#L28) if they are hidden within a Shogun object. Have a look at the generated listings to see how. When you added a new meta example, you can easily add a generated file to the [data](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun-data/tree/master/testsuite/meta/) repository (after executing the test of cource). For now, use the results generated by the `cpp` examples in `build/tests/meta/generated_results/cpp/`. Once added, all future results of a test file will be compared to this reference file. Note as opposed to the old integration testing system, only *numerical* outputs are compared. Please keep the example output files small (use toy example data)

## Guidelines

 * Orient yourself as close as possible on the above reference example. Include the same elements as used thereim.
 * Write proper English. Pay attention to grammar, spelling, and punctuation.
 * Keep the example *specific*. Only talk about the particular algorithm and its interface. General concepts (for example 'supervised learning') should go to overview pages.
 * Keep the example *local*. Only show code snippets that illustrate API usage, avoid showing the full listing.
 * Let the *code* speak for itself. Don't put useless statements that are clear from the code. Don't say things like "we call the `train` method", but rather "we train the model via". This way the `.rst` file is also invariant to API changes and we only need to update the `.sg` file.
 * *Think* about which interface you want to show. I.e. when illustrating `KNN`, use `apply_multiclass` rather than just `apply`. The former gives `CMulticlassLabels` while the latter only gives `CLabels`, which is a problem in non-typesafe languages where we can't cast in a simple way.
 
## Some useful tips

 * All external weblinks are automatically checked and warnings are given if corrupt, but please ensure you do not put in dead links.
 * If you want to add a BibTeX reference, add it to [references.bib](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/blob/develop/doc/cookbook/source/references.bib). Please do only use properly formated entries.
 * If you need a custom LaTeX operator, simply add it to [mathconf.js](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/blob/develop/doc/cookbook/source/static/mathconf.js)
 * It is very easy to re-structure the main page, or to put in general overview pages (i.e. a general description of the Classification interface of Shogun). Feel free to do so.
 
### Where to start
Our [Python examples](https://github.com/shogun-toolbox/shogun/tree/develop/examples/undocumented/python_modular) are most complete. Translate any example into the meta language (remove it afterwards, the meta examples are part of our tests), and add the corresponding cookbook page.


### Render locally
We automatically upload the cookbook to our webserver in the [PR build on buildbot](http://buildbot.shogun-toolbox.org/builders/deb1%20-%20libshogun%20-%20PR), where you can also find a html preview. However, you should have a look at your page before you send a pull request.

This can be done as running

```
make cookbook
```

which is also part of ```make doc```. Note that the meta examples need to be enabled an sphinx needs to be installed, otherwise the ```cookbook``` target is not available. See dependencies below.

This generates a ```doc/cookbook/html``` folder in your build folder. To see the results, run

```
python -m SimpleHTTPServer
```

in that directory and then open your browser at ```localhost:8000```.


## Python requirements
The cookbook is automatically built if these dependencies are met:
 * `cmake` switch `-DBUILD_META_EXAMPLES`
 * [sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/)
 * [python-ply](http://www.dabeaz.com/ply/)
 
In addition this python module needs to be installed to enable bibtex citations.
 * [sphinxcontrib-bibtex](https://sphinxcontrib-bibtex.readthedocs.org/)
